---
layout: post
title: 100 Days of K8s - Day 1
category: 100 Days of K8s
permalink: 100DaysofK8s/day1
---

Today is Day 1 of #100DaysofK8s and I started [Introduction to Kubernetes](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-to-kubernetes) from [The Linux Foundation](www.linuxfoundation.org/‎
) of [Edx.org](https://edx.org). The topics I covered today were From Monolith to Microservice and Container Orchestration.

## From Monolith to Microservice
Monoliths are applications in which all the services that make up the application are tightly coupled and ran on a small number of giant servers which can be expensive to build and run. Some challenges that are faced with moving monoliths to the cloud are data sources being tightly coupled to the application making it a poor candidate for containerization and/or several services  that make up an application having conflicting dependencies which increases the number of servers required further increasing the cost of splitting the monolith into microservices.  

Microservices are applications which are deployed so that each service runs on it's own hardware which is provisioned to run that service. These servers are much smaller and much less expensive to build and run.

Microservices-based architecture is aligned with [Event-driven Architecture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Event-driven_architecture) and [Service-Oriented Architecture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Service-oriented_architecture).

When refactoring monolith applications there are two approaches. Some organizations choose to halt production on their monolith and focus all efforts on refactoring the monolith into microservices. This is known as a "big-bang" and while it can work it presents some challenges and at times can result in the monolith being broken in the process. The other option is to take an incremental approach and utilize APIs on the monolith to add new features as microservices and slowly break off pieces that can be pulled out of the monolith and turned into a microservice until the monolith has been refactored away.

## Container Orchestration

Container orchestration takes systems and groups them together to be easily utilized through automation by container images. A few reasons for doing container orchestration is that it allows your deployments to be fault-tolerant, scalable, resource optimized, accessible, easily updated or rolled back without down time, allow communication between services, bind containers to storage resources, allow for security policies to be implemented, and allow easy routing and load balancing to containers.

There are quite a few different container orchestration options. Just to name a few there are Kubernetes, Nomad, and Docker Swarm. In addition to having different container orchestration options there are also different managed deployment options which include IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service, Google Kubernetes Engine, Amazon EKS, and DigitalOcean Kubernetes.

Tomorrow I begin the module on Kubernetes.
