---
layout: post
title: 100 Days of K8s - Day 6
category: 100 Days of K8s
permalink: 100DaysofK8s/day6
---

Today is Day 6 of #100DaysofK8s and I am working through [Introduction to Kubernetes](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-to-kubernetes) from [The Linux Foundation](www.linuxfoundation.org/‎
) of [Edx.org](https://edx.org). The topic I covered today was Authentication, Authorization and Admission Control. Besides the module on the edx course the K8s website has documentation about this [Authentication, Authorization and Admission Control in the reference section](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/).

## Stages of Kubernetes API Access
The stages of Kubernetes API Access are Authentication, Authorization, and Admission Control.

### Authentication
Authentication is the stage where a user logs in. Kubernetes does not have a user object, but it can still use credentials to allow access. A few different authentications modules that can be used are Client Certificates, Tokens, Password Files, or an Authenticating Proxy. For more information about authenticating check out the [K8s Docs on Authenticating](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#authentication-strategies).

**Normal Users** are managed outside of the K8s cluster by a 3rd party service such as LDAP or User/Client certificates.

**Service Accounts** can be automatically created by the API or manually created by a user. Service Accounts are directly tied to a namespace and use mounted credentials to communicate to the API server.

### Authorization
Once a user is authenticated their API requests are sent to the API server for authorization. The API request containers attributes about the user making the request and where the request is being made to and an authorization module evaluates the policies and returns either an approval or denial. Some examples of authorization modules are listed and defined below.

**Node Authorizer** is a module which authorizes both read and write requests from the kubelet.

**Attribute-Based Access Control** is a module which grants access by combining policies with attributes.  This module must be enabled by a human operator.

**Webhook Authorizer** is a module used to grant third-parties application to the k8s cluster via webhook. This module must be enabled by a human operator.

**Role-Based Access Control** is a module used to control access based on user roles. A `Role` is used to grant access to resources in a particular namespace while a `ClusterRole` is used to grant access cluster wide. Once a `Role` has been created we can use a `RoleBinding` or a `ClusterRoleBinding` to grant users with that assigned to that `Role` access to specific api groups. In K8s this module must be enabled by a human operator.

### Admission Control
Admission Control comes into play once Authentication and Authorization have been done. With admission control plugs can be enabled for controllers such as ResourceQuota and DefaultStorageClass. While there are many controllers for Admission Control some have to be enabled by a human operator. As of Kubernetes v1.14 the following were enabled by default:

* NamespaceLifecycle,
* LimitRanger,
* ServiceAccount,
* TaintNodesByCondition,
* Priority,
* DefaultTolerationSeconds,
* DefaultStorageClass,
* PersistentVolumeClaimResize,
* MutatingAdmissionWebhook,
* ValidatingAdmissionWebhook,
* ResourceQuota
