---
layout: post
title: 100 Days of K8s - Day 2
category: 100 Days of K8s
permalink: 100DaysofK8s/day2
---

Today is Day 2 of #100DaysofK8s and I am working through [Introduction to Kubernetes](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-to-kubernetes) from [The Linux Foundation](www.linuxfoundation.org/‎
) of [Edx.org](https://edx.org). The topics I covered today were Introduction to Kubernetes and Kubernetes Architecture

## Introduction to Kubernetes

Kubernetes is essentially a control mechanism for all of your containerized workloads.

According to the Kubernetes website,

"Kubernetes is an open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications."

It allows an easy way to cluster machines together for scheduling, scaling, and deploying cloud-native applications.

Some features of Kubernetes include self-healing, scheduling, scaling, service discovery, load balancing, batch execution, storage orchestration, configuration management, secret management, automated rollouts and rollbacks.

Borg was Google's cluster orchestrator for a number of years and many of the people who worked on Borg brought their expertise to Kubernetes. Upon the 1.0 release of Kubernetes the folks at Google donated Kubernetes to the Cloud Native Computing Foundation.

The [Cloud Native Computing Foundation](https://www.cncf.io/) is hosted by [The Linux Foundation](https://linuxfoundation.org). CNCF hosts and provides resources to many projects which span the entire lifecycle of a cloud-native application. The purpose of the CNCF is to accelerate the adoption of cloud-native technologies.

## Kubernetes Architecture

Discuss the Kubernetes architecture.
The Kubernetes Architecture consists of one more more master nodes, one or more worker nodes, and etcd as a distributed key value store.

### Masters
The K8s Master node is where the control plane runs. The control plane consists of a scheduler, a controller, and the api server. Cluster configuration data is stored in etcd and shared between the masters when in HA configuration.

The kube-apiserver gets RESTful calls and processes them. It is the only part of the Master to communicate with etcd.

The kube-scheduler assigns objects like pods to nodes. It makes all of the decisions about which where an object will be deployed based on configuration data it retrieves from etcd via the apiserver.

The kube-controller-manager and cloud-controller-manager ensure that the expected state of the cluster is the state that it is actually in and when the expected state doesn't match the desired state they take action to get things back in order.  Kube-controller-manager is responsible for nodes, pods, and the like. Cloud-controller-manager is responsible for underlying infrastructure of a cloud provider.

Etcd can be deployed on the Master server in what is called a stacked configuration or it can be deployed on it's own dedicated node. Etcd is responsible for storing cluster state and configuration information and of the components on a master server only the kube-apiserver is allowed to communicate with it.   

### Workers
The K8s Worker node is where client applications run. The applications are wrapped into a pod and the scheduler determines which worker node they should be deployed to. To make this happen the worker node utilizes a container runtime, a kubelet, kube-proxy, and dns/other addons.

There are a few different options for container runtimes but docker is the most common. A container runtime is used to run and manage containers.

The kubelet runs on each node and acts as a mediator between the control plane components on the master node and the container runtime on the worker node. To communicate to the container runtime the kubelet using a Container Runtime Interface through cri shims. The kubelet also monitors pod health.

Kube-proxy is responsible for updating network rules on each of the nodes.

Some additional addons are dns, dashboards, logging and monitoring.

### Networking

Container to Container communication inside of pods is done through a network namespace created in that pod and all containers in the pod communicate with each other through that network namespace.

Pod to Pod communication across nodes is done by each pod receiving it's own IP through a Container Network Interface utilizing a Software-Defined Network or SDN.  

Pod to External World communication is done through the use of services which utilize kube-proxy to encapsulate networking rule definitions on the host and allow external access through a virtual IP.
