---
layout: post
title: 100 Days of K8s - Day 5
category: 100 Days of K8s
permalink: 100DaysofK8s/day5
---

Today is Day 5 of #100DaysofK8s and I am working through [Introduction to Kubernetes](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-to-kubernetes) from [The Linux Foundation](www.linuxfoundation.org/‎
) of [Edx.org](https://edx.org). The topic I covered today was Kubernetes Building Blocks .


## Kubernetes Objects
Kubernetes has many objects such as pods, ReplicaSets, Deployments, Namespaces, DaemonSets, etc. Theses objects can be defined in a YAML file which is then loaded into kubernetes.

### Object Types
**Pods** are the smallest object in K8s, and they are ephemeral. While they are one instance of an application and a collection of containers which are deployed to the same node, share a network namespace, and can access the same storage they can not heal themselves.

**ReplicaSets** are used to scale the number of pods running a specific application either manually or by autoscaling. It contains data with the desired number of pods and if a pod is terminated for whatever reason the ReplicaSet will take care of replacing it.

**Deployments** are used to create ReplicaSets and Pods and handle rollout and rollback of applications. Through use of Deployments, Pods and ReplicaSets do not have to be individually managed but are managed as part of the deployment.

**Namespaces** are used to create a separation of objects and resources in a cluster to help prevent collisions between different users and/or teams. Resource Quotas can also be set on Namespaces to ration cluster resources.

### Defining Objects
In the YAML file the user defines the api version, kind, metadata, and spec.

**API version** is specified with the key `apiVersion` and a value of the api endpoint the user is wanting their object to hit.

**Kind** is specified with the key `kind`
and a value specifying the object type.

**Metadata** is specified with the key `metadata` and has nested key value pairs for information about the object such as `name`, `labels`, etc.

**Spec** is specified with the key `spec` and has nested key value pairs which provide information about the desired state of the object.

Each object also has a status which is populated by K8s once the object is created.

### Labels and Selectors

**Labels** are key value pairs which are used to organize objects for the purpose of grouping things together.

**Label Selectors** are used by controllers to select a group of objects and can either be [equality based](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/#equality-based-requirement) or [set based](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/#set-based-requirement).

More information about working with objects can be found on the [Kubernetes Objects page at kubernetes.io](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/kubernetes-objects/).
