---
layout: post
title: 100 Days of K8s - Day 12
category: 100 Days of K8s
permalink: 100DaysofK8s/day12
---

Today is Day 12 of #100DaysofK8s, and I will be completing the [Introduction to Kubernetes](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-to-kubernetes) course from [The Linux Foundation](www.linuxfoundation.org/‎
) of [Edx.org](https://edx.org).

Today I will be going over the sections on Advanced Topics (Annotation, DaemonSets, StatefulSets, Helm, etc) and the Kubernetes Community.

## Advanced Topics

### Annotations

Annotations are user defined metadata added to objects for use by users or user build code. They are not used by the Kubernetes API. Some common uses for annotations are contact information for responsible parties and build information such as pull request number, or build id.

### Jobs and CronJobs

Jobs create one or more Pod to complete a task. Once the task is complete all pods for that task are terminated. The use of CronJobs allows Jobs to be scheduled to run at a specific time and/or date.

### Quota Management

Quota Management allows administrators to restrict namespace access to compute and storage resources as well as object count. This allows administrators to ensure that no user is consuming more than their fair share of resources.

### Autoscaling

Autoscaling allows for Kubernetes Objects to scale based on metrics. Types of Autoscaling are Horizontal Pod which is based on CPU utilization and adjust the numbers of replicas in a ReplicaSet. Veritcal Pod sets resource requirements for Pods based on historical CPU and Memory utilization. Lastly Cluster autoscaling resizes K8s clusters when there are underutilized nodes in a cluster or when there are not sufficient resources available for a Pod expecting to be scheduled.

### DaemonSets

DaemonSets are objects that allow pods which need to be deployed on every node in a cluster to be. When a new node is added to a cluster a new pod is added to that node via DaemonSets if a DaemonSet already exists.  Some examples of common DaemonSets are logging and monitoring tools such as fluentd, fluent bit, telegraf, and node_exporter.

### StatefulSets

StatefulSets are used for applications that have stateful information that requires a unique identity. StatefulSets are similar to Deployments in that they use ReplicaSets and allow rolling updates and rollbacks.

### Kubernetes Federation

Federation allows multiple clusters to run from a single control plane. It allows deployments to be done across multiple regions and do discovery across multiple clusters.

### Custom Resources

Custom Resources can be used to extend the Kubernetes API if all of the preexisting resources do not fit the needs of the end user. New resources can be added via Custom Resource Definitions or by API Aggregation.

### Helm

Helm is a package management tool for Kubernetes which uses Charts to install, update, and delete full deployments of Kubernetes Objects to create a running microservice.  Helm consists of two components, the client, *helm*, and the server, *tiller*. Tiller manages the charts and helm connects to the server.

### Security Contexts and Pod Security Policies

Security Contexts allow administrators to set access control for permissions and privileges at the pod level. Pod Security Policies apply security settings across the entire cluster and can control host namespace, host network, file system access, permissions, and privileges.

### Network Policies

Network Policies are essentially firewalls controlling incoming and outgoing traffic on the namespace level. Best practice is to deny all traffic to and from a namespace and only allow traffic that is explicitly required.

### Monitoring and Logging

Kubernetes is deployed with a metrics server as of v1.8. The metrics server is called `Metrics Server`. CNCF also has a metrics system called Prometheus that is commonly deployed with Kubernetes.

## Kubernetes Community

As an open source project Kubernetes is largely community driven. Not only do community members introduce new features and fix bugs in the code, but they also have weekly meetings, do meet ups, and help with training new people to use Kubernetes, and answering any questions people might have.

There are also yearly Kubernetes events such as KubeCon + CloudNative Con for North America, Europe, and China.

Kubernetes even has stack overflow, a slack, and special interest groups for people who wish to help in a certain area.

Certifications for Administrators and Developers are available through The Linux Foundation and [the curriculum is available on GitHub](https://github.com/cncf/curriculum).
